We saw a couple of strategies which are only useful in edge cases,
now let's have a look at a strategy which is really useful in a lot of cases.
This is the cache, then network strategy.
The idea is to get an asset as quickly as possible from the cache
and then also try to fetch a more up-to-date version from the network,
this way we can always present something to the user quickly and still get an updated version if the
network is available.
It's the improved version of the network first fallback to cache version because here we don't need to wait for
the network to timeout.
If it does timeout, doesn't matter, we already served something from the cache,
if it is successful, we override whatever we fetched from the cache.
So this is how it works, the page directly reaches out to the cache,
this is important,
we directly access the cache from the page,
we already did so when we added the save button to allow the user to save something on demand.
So we directly accessed the cache and we get the value back,
no service worker involved here.
We also use some variable to see if a network response is already there because in case the network
is faster than us retrieving data from the cache, we don't want to override the network response with
the cache response,
I will show you how to do this in a practical example in a second.
So this is the first step,
we're not done though,
we also reach out to the service worker or to be precise, we send a network request which is intercepted
by the service worker
and this happens simultaneously to us reaching out to the cache actually,
that is why both have a one here next to the arrows. The service worker will then reach out to the network
and try to get a response from there.
Now this network response goes back to the service worker,
there we then also store that in the cache,
now this is of course optional, we're using dynamic caching here again but it makes sense and is often
used in the strategy
and then we also return the fetch data to the page.
So step four is optional here, only if you want to use dynamic caching and dynamically add new items
to the cache.
The other steps are important though
and whilst this diagram might look a bit scary,
it's actually easy to implement and it's a powerful strategy because it allows us to get something on
the screen quickly but update it whenever a new version is available.
Let's see how we implement that.
As I said for this strategy, we actually have to work in both our normal Javascript files and the service
worker,
let's start in the normal files, maybe in the feed.js
file here,
there we reach out to the network here for example, to fetch some data.
Now I did mention that JSON data actually shouldn't be stored in the cache and we will improve this
later in the course when we also use an actual data source
but for now, this is a good example because we can only use the cache, then network strategy here
if we issue the request manually from Javascript. The reason for this is that we first of all manually
have to access our cache,
so for that, I'll copy that cache code from above, from that unsave button clicked and add it down there.
So first of all let's check if we can access the cache in the given user browser
because maybe in older browsers, we can't do that
and then in there, I'll get rid of that code.
I'll see if in the caches, I can find the URL I'm trying to access,
so this URL here.
So I'm trying to access this,
I can even store it in a variable here, to save some lines.
So this is the URL I in the end want to get data from and I can pass it here to the match function to see
if I do have data about this in my cache.
Now if I do have data in there, I of course want to use it, then I handle the result of that,
so in that function, I get a response and this can be null in case I don't find it in the cache.
In that case, I don't want to do anything but if response is set, so if it's not null, then I want to continue.
Here
I then want to parse it and use it,
so basically what I'm also doing here because it is a valid response,
always keep this in mind, we stored the full response. So I can call response.json here too
and I can return that. Now in the next then block,
I get my data,
of course this is only true if we're in this if case, otherwise I'm not returning anything here.
So here I get back my data and that is where I can for one print it to the console maybe to see it but
then also call create card, this is
basically you call the code where you update your page, this is what you do here,
we also make the normal fetch request though. I'll make it first before I reach out to the cache but it
won't be finished until I have a response from the cache most likely, I'll come back to that issue.
So here, I'll send a fetch request to
that URL too, fetching my data here.
Here the code stays as it is
but the one issue we now have is I fetch data from the web and I can actually log this here, console
log
from web data and down there, it's from cache.
Now let's see what the issue is by saving this and updating the static cache number here in the service
worker because we changed the way we changed this file basically, let's reload the application
and let's reopen this tab.
Now we get two cards here,
the issue is I got from cache first and then from web which is pretty much default. It could be the other
way around though and it could possibly override our existing data with the cache data,
so if the web was faster than the cache which can happen if you have a very fast server and a very slow
cache, then you would first load the web data and then the cache comes back and overrides your data.
Now that is not what you want.
Now the problem that we see two cards here is a different one, that is simply related the way I update
my UI because I append a new card every time so the new data doesn't replace the old one in my
application here yet.
Let's fix both problems and let's start with the more important one,
preventing ourselves from overriding our data.
So we want to have another variable here where I say network data received,
give it any name you like and it's false at the beginning.
I'll set it to true
once I get the data though,
so here once I get the data, I'll set it to true and I only want to use my cache response
if that is false because if network data received is true, it means the network request was faster
and in this case, I certainly don't want to use my cache data.
So here in the cache, I only want to create a card if network data received is false because otherwise
it means the network already gave me an up-to-date answer,
an up-to-date response,
I don't want to use the cache one. Now still the issue with us appending it even though we already have
data,
well that is something we can easily fix here. In create card,
we create a card and append it, we probably should call another method first where we clear
everything. For that,
I'll quickly create another helper function here, I name it
clearCards and in here, I want to take my sharedMomentsArea which is where I append these cards in
this line and there, I can now simply use a little while loop where I check if in this area,
I still have child nodes with hasChildNodes,
this returns true as long as you guessed it, I have child nodes and then I simply remove one.
So I remove a child here, remove child and I remove the last one,
so simply last child.
So for every loop iteration, this will remove one child
and once all are removed, it's done.
So all I have to do here is I have to call clear cards first before I create my new card and we'll later
work on this once we fetch more data because right now, we can only create one card with that code.
That being said, let's go back and bump this version number up again
and now if I load this, you see we got from web, we got from cache earlier and we only have one card,
so that is fixed.
We're not done with the strategy though,
more about that in the next lecture where we work on the service worker side.